ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE

Assembly language is a low-level programming language that is closely related to machine code.
It provides a way to write programs using mnemonic codes and symbols instead of binary, making it easier to read and write. 
Each assembly language is specific to a particular computer architecture.

ASSEMBLER

An assembler is a specialized software tool that translates assembly language code, which is a low-level programming language,
into machine code (binary code) that a computer's processor can execute directly.

MACHINE LEVEL LANGUAGE


Machine language is the lowest level of programming language, consisting entirely of binary code that a computer's central processing unit (CPU) can directly execute. 
It is specific to a particular architecture and is composed of a series of instructions that control the CPU's operations.

HIGH LEVEL LANGUAGE

High-level languages are programming languages that provide a significant level of abstraction from a computer's hardware. 
They are designed to be easy to read, write, and maintain, making them more user-friendly compared to low-level languages. Here’s a breakdown of high-level languages,
their characteristics, advantages, and examples.

COMPILER

A compiler is a program that translates the entire source code of a high-level programming language into machine code or an intermediate form before execution.
This process allows developers to write code in a more understandable and manageable way while still enabling the computer to perform the instructions efficiently.

INTERPRETER

An interpreter is a program that translates and executes high-level programming code line-by-line or statement-by-statement.
This allows developers to run their code without needing to compile it into a separate executable file first

CODE EDITOR

A code editor is a software application designed specifically for writing and editing source code. Code editors often provide features that enhance the coding experience,
making it easier for developers to write, modify, and manage code effectively. 

Syntax Highlighting
Auto-Completion
Customizability
Debugging Tools
Line Numbering
Code Folding

INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT

An Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is a comprehensive software application that provides developers with a set of tools for software development in a single interface. IDEs typically combine a code editor, debugger, compiler or interpreter, and other features that facilitate the software development process. 

Key Features of IDEs

Code Editor: A built-in code editor with features like syntax highlighting, code completion, and formatting to enhance the coding experience.
Debugger: Tools for debugging code, including breakpoints, step-through execution, and variable inspection to help identify and fix errors.
Build Automation: Support for compiling code and managing builds, often with integrated build systems that simplify the process of compiling and linking code.
Version Control Integration: Integration with version control systems (e.g., Git) to manage code changes and collaborate with other developers.
Project Management: Features for organizing code files, libraries, and resources within projects, making it easier to manage complex software solutions.
Testing Tools: Built-in or integrated tools for writing and executing unit tests, helping ensure code quality and correctness.
Documentation and Help: Access to documentation, code references, and help features to assist developers in writing and understanding code.
Plugins and Extensions: Support for additional plugins and extensions to customize the IDE and enhance functionality based on specific needs.

Just-In-Time (JIT) Compilation

JIT compilation occurs at runtime. When a program is executed, the JIT compiler translates parts of the code into machine code on-the-fly,
just before they are executed.

Ahead-Of-Time (AOT) Compilation

AOT compilation translates high-level code into machine code before execution, creating a standalone executable file.
This process occurs during the build phase.

1.ADD TWO NUMBERS

Start
Please enter two numbers
Read number 1,number 2
Sum = number 1 + number 2
Write sum
End

2.CHECK POSITIVE OR NOT

START
WRITE enter the number
Read the number as num
IF num > 0
PRINT positive
ELSEIF num < 0
PRINT negative 
ELSE PRINT zero
END

3.LARGEST OR NOT

START
Enter 3 numbers n1,n2,n3
largest = N1
IF n2 > n1
    n2 = largest
IF n3 > n2
    n3 = largest
PRINT largest
END

4.EVEN OR ODD

START
FOR number from 0 to 10:
        IF number % 2 = 0;
            PRINT number
END









